Doctoral Regulations 2023

Doctoral Regulations 2023

Doctoral Regulations

Delft University of Technology

For further information about these regulations, please
contact: The Graduate Office, TU Delft Graduate School
www.graduateschool.tudelft.nl

This is a translation of the Dutch version of the Regulations. In case of a conflict
between the English and Dutch version of the Regulations, the Dutch version will prevail
and will be binding.

The Doctoral Regulations were established by the Board for Doctorates in its
meeting of 19 June 2023.

Prof. T.H.J.J. van der Hagen
Chair of the Board for Doctorates
Rector Magnificus of TU Delft

Foreword

Awarding the degree of Doctor is a great privilege for a Dutch university. It is
one of the unique, distinctive and inalienable prerogatives of a university. It
is the highest academic accolade we have in the Netherlands.

The doctoral research that leads to the doctoral dissertation is an exciting
process during which the candidate blossoms into a fully-fledged
researcher, capable of conducting and reporting independent scientific
research in accordance with the principles of good academic practice:
transparency, integrity, and respect for third-party findings. The candidate
is supervised during this process by (a) promotor(s) and/or copromotor(s).
The ultimate defence of the doctoral dissertation in the presence of an
independent committee consisting of scientists experienced in TU Delft
decorum is one of the most striking moments in the academic career of the
candidate and their supervisors.

All the more reason to go into the process that underpins the preparation
and writing of the doctoral dissertation with due care and attention. To that
end, the Doctoral Regulations and the Implementation Decree provide
rules with which everyone involved in this process must comply. These
new regulations contain various changes compared to the 2018 version,
relating to English language skills, premature termination, the expansion of
the four eyes principle, the composition of the team of supervisors and the
doctoral committee and data management. In line with developments in
society, the Doctoral Regulations and the Implementation Decree have
been formulated using gender-neutral language.

The Board for Doctorates and the Graduate School of Delft University of
Technology aim to ensure that our PhD candidates experience and benefit
from a rich and informative development process and can take pride in
being awarded their doctorate by their promotors.

Kind regards,

Prof. T.H.J.J. van der Hagen
Rector Magnificus

Prof. B. van Arem
Pro Vice Rector Magnificus for Doctoral Affairs
Delft, September 2023

Table of Contents

1 
Definitions 
9 

2 
Doctorate 
12 

3 
Joint doctorate 
13 

4 
Start of doctoral programme 
13 

5 
Doctoral candidate and preparation of the doctoral dissertation 
14 

6 
Doctoral Education programme 
15 

7 
Go/No Go and Go/No Go and Premature termination 
15 

8 
Supervision of the doctoral candidate 
17 

9 
Duties and responsibilities of promotor and copromotor 
19 

10 
Approval of draft doctoral dissertation 
20 

11 
Application for doctoral defence ceremony 
21 

12 
Composition of doctoral committee 
22 

13 
Appointment of doctoral committee and announcement of provisional doctoral defence date 
23 

14 
Assessment of draft doctoral dissertation by doctoral committee 
24 

15 
Preparations for the doctoral defence ceremony 
25 

16 
Doctoral defence ceremony 
26 

17 
Awarding of the degree of Doctor 
27 

18 
Awarding of the degree of Doctor with designation cum laude 
28 

19 
Disputes 
30 

20 
Mediation 
31 

21 
Honorary doctorate 
31 

22 
Final provisions 
32 

23 
Transitional provisions 
33 

Article 1
Definitions

1.1.
The terms used in these Regulations are defined as follows:

Board for Doctorates: 
the board for doctorates of the university within the meaning of Article 7.18 section 4 and Article 9.10 of the Act; 

Copromotor: 
the person appointed by the Board for Doctorates to work with the promotor in supervising the doctoral candidate; 

DE Programme: 
the Doctoral Education (DE) training programme that is compulsory for doctoral candidates; 

Doctoral candidate: 
the person registered as such at the TU Delft Graduate School and following a Doctoral Programme; 

Doctoral committee: 
the committee, appointed by the Board for Doctorates, before which the doctoral defence ceremony will take place; 

Doctoral defence ceremony: 
the public session of the doctoral committee in which the doctoral candidate defends the doctoral dissertation, including appendices and propositions, in order to be awarded the degree of Doctor; 

Doctoral dissertation: 
the scientific treatise as defined in Section 7.18, paragraph 2b of the WHW; 

Doctoral Examination Working Committee: 
the committee established as such by the Rector Magnificus, whose members deputise for the Rector Magnificus in his role as chairperson during the doctoral defence ceremony; 

Doctoral Programme: 
the period from the registered start of the doctoral research up to and including the doctoral defence ceremony; 

Draft doctoral dissertation: 
the draft for the doctoral dissertation that is submitted for assessment by the doctoral committee after being approved by the promotor; 

Faculty Graduate School: 
the Graduate School of a faculty as defined in Article 18a of the Executive and Management Regulations; 

Go/No-Go meeting: 
meeting at the end of the first year of the doctoral programme in which the intended promotor makes an assessment, based on a committee's recommendations, as to whether the doctoral candidate is considered capable of successfully completing the Doctoral Programme; 

Graduate School Office: 
support office of the TU Delft Graduate School responsible for day-to-day business concerning doctorates and which supports the TU Delft Graduate School; 

Implementation Decree: 
more specific rules concerning the implementation of the Doctoral Regulations, to be adopted by the Board for Doctorates; 

Intended promotor: 
full professor or staff member with a doctorate to whom the ius promovendi has been awarded who has reached agreement with the doctoral candidate on the subject of the doctoral research and who, once a Go decision has been made based on the Go/No Go meeting, requests that the Board for Doctorates appoint him as promotor; 

Ius promovendi 
the right to be eligible to be appointed as a promotor on the grounds of Section 7.18 of the WHW; 

Promotor: 
the full professor or staff member with a doctorate appointed as such by the Board for Doctorates in accordance with Section 7.18, paragraph 4 of the WHW to whom the ius promovendi has been awarded or whose ius promovendi has been recognized by the TU Delft Board for Doctorates; 

Propositions: 
statements argued and appended to the doctoral dissertation designated by the promotor as academically sound, examinable and defensible and which the doctoral candidate will defend; 

Rector Magnificus: 
the Rector Magnificus of the university, also chairperson of the Board for Doctorates, or the replacement of the Rector Magnificus during a doctoral defence ceremony; 

TU Delft Graduate School: 
the Graduate School of the university, as defined in Article 18a of TU Delft's Executive and Management Regulations, consisting of the faculty Graduate Schools and a board; 

Vice-Rector: 
the vice-chairperson of the Board for Doctorates, who also chairs the Doctoral Examination Working Committee; 

WHW: 
the Higher Education and Scientific Research Act of the Netherlands (Wet op het hoger onderwijs en wetenschappelijk onderzoek). 

1.2. Any references in these Regulations to:

a.
promotor or copromotor should be interpreted as meaning
promotors and/or copromotor in cases in which more than
one promotor and/or copromotor have been appointed;

b.
promotor or copromotor should also be interpreted as
intended promotor or intended copromotor during the
period before a Go decision has been made and the
appointment as promotor has taken place;

C.
full professor should also be interpreted as the former full professor
acting as promotor.

1.3.
The provisions included in these Regulations concerning the doctoral
dissertation will also be applicable to the Doctoral Design (with
appendices). This refers to the original, innovative technical design,
comprising design drawings, models and/or other products
developed by using appropriate specialist theoretical knowledge,
methods and/or calculations, combined with scientific justification
and documentation compiled in writing.
Article 2 Doctorate

2.1.
The degree of Doctor can be obtained at TU Delft following the
public defence of a doctoral dissertation before the Board for
Doctorates or the doctoral committee appointed by it. The Board for
Doctorates awards the degree of Doctor. By way of a departure
from that stipulated in the other Articles in these Regulations, the
provisions of Article 21 will apply to the awarding of the honorary
doctoral degree.

2.2.
Admission to the doctoral defence ceremony will be open to anyone:

a.
who has been awarded the degree of Master in
accordance with Section 7.10 a, paragraph 1, 2 or 3 of the
WHW, and

b.
who, as proof of competence to practice science
independently has written a doctoral dissertation,
and

C.
has met the other requirements set in these Doctoral
Regulations with regard to, among other things:

\- completing a Doctoral programme,

\- following a DE programme and

\- the quality and content of the doctoral dissertation.

2.3.
In exceptional circumstances, the Board for Doctorates can, on their request,
admit access to the doctoral programme and the doctoral defence ceremony
to a person who is not in possession of the required degree but who meets
the requirements stipulated in Article 2.2b and c, if the person requesting this
demonstrates sufficient knowledge in some other way, and to the satisfaction
of the Board for Doctorates. The Board for Doctorates can determine more
specific rules for this in the Implementation Decree.
Article 3 Joint Doctorate

3.1.
TU Delft can, together with one or more Dutch or foreign institutions
of academic education, jointly:

a.
award the degree of Doctor by issuing a single degree
certificate;

b.
award the degree of Doctor, with each of the institutions
awarding the degree of Doctor including a reference to the
fact that the degree is being awarded jointly.

3.2.
The joint doctorate will be awarded by the Board for Doctorates,
together with or in conjunction with a similar body at the partner
institution.

3.3.
The joint doctorate will meet the following requirements:

a.
a cooperation agreement has been concluded with
the other institution in advance;

b.
the Board for Doctorates has issued permission in
writing prior to the Doctoral Programme;

C.
the provisions of the Doctoral Regulations will apply to the
joint doctorate, unless exceptions apply that have been
substantiated and authorised by the Board for Doctorates.

3.4.
In the Implementation Decree, the Board for Doctorates will
determine more specific rules with regard to the conditions and
requirements that a joint doctorate must always meet.
Article 4 Start of Doctoral Programme

4.1.
A person who wishes to complete a Doctoral Programme must in order to
obtain a doctorate:

a.
enter into consultations with the most appropriate (full
professor or the associate professor with a doctorate to
whom the ius promovendi has been awarded), specialised
in the field of science involved and reach agreement on the
subject of the doctoral research, the title of the doctoral
dissertation and the staff member's willingness to act as
promotor,
and

b.
provide proof of identity and register as a doctoral

candidate at the TU Delft Graduate School by
submitting a certified copy of a degree certificate as
defined in Article 2.2a or a copy of the awarding of
access pursuant to Article 2.3 and

C.
provide proof of a good command of spoken and
written English language proficiency

4.2.
When the conditions stipulated in 4.1 have been met, the TU Delft
Graduate School will ensure a statement is issued as soon as
possible on behalf of the Board for Doctorates detailing the
registration as a doctoral candidate and the appointment as the
intended promotor of the person referred to in 4.1a, and the
appointment of an intended copromotor.

4.3.
Within three months of the start of the Doctoral Programme,
the doctoral candidate must have made agreements with the
intended promotor on supervision, the appointment of one or
two intended (co)promotor(s) as referred to in Article 8 and the
content of the DE Programme to be followed by the doctoral
candidate. These agreements must be recorded in a PhD
agreement and submitted to the Faculty Graduate School.
Article 5 Doctoral candidate and preparation of doctoral dissertation

5.1.
The doctoral candidate will conduct independent scientific
research and will maintain the customary academic contacts with
fellow scientists.

5.2.
The doctoral candidate is responsible for producing the doctoral
dissertation as a contribution to science and ensuring the research
is conducted:

a.
in accordance with the code of conduct and
professional code applicable to professional
activities in the area of the science (domain)
concerned;

b.
according to the statutory regulations and university
regulations applicable and in all events, for research
involving animal testing, hazardous (e.g. radioactive)
materials, hazardous (e.g. biological) substances; and

C.
without the imposition of any limitations that conflict with
academic freedom on the research and the freedom of
publication of data and results from the research, also
insofar as (part of) the research is funded by third parties.

Article 6 Doctoral Education Programme

6.1.
The doctoral candidate is obliged to follow the DE Programme and
will receive a DE certificate when completing the DE programme
successfully. The doctoral candidate will register the planning and
progress on the DE Programme record in the system designated
for this.

6.2.
The DE Programme consists of the following components:
transferable, research-related and discipline-related skills courses
The Board for Doctorates will specify further requirements
concerning the size and scope of these components.

6.3.
In very exceptional cases, the Board for Doctorates can award
an exemption from taking a component or course in the DE
Programme. The doctoral candidate must submit a request to
this effect within twelve months of the Doctoral Programme's
start to the Faculty Graduate School director.

6.4.
In very exceptional cases, the Board for Doctorates can award full
dispensation from taking the DE Programme. The doctoral
candidate must submit a request to this effect within four months
of the Doctoral Programme start to the Faculty Graduate School
director. The Board for Doctorates can specify further
requirements concerning the maximum scope of this
dispensation.
Article 7 Go/No Go and premature termination

7.1.
At the latest one year after the registered start date of the Doctoral
Programme, a Go/No Go meeting will be held between the doctoral
candidate and the intended promotor, following which the intended
promotor will explicitly inform the doctoral candidate of the former's
expectations concerning the successful completion of the Doctoral
Programme within a reasonable period. Based on this, the intended
promotor will decide whether the Doctoral Programme will proceed
(Go) or will be terminated (No Go).

7.2.
If the doctoral candidate is working on the Doctoral Programme full-
time, four years from the start of the Doctoral Programme is deemed
a reasonable period.

7.3.
In the decision referred to in paragraph 1, the intended promotor
will take prior advice from a committee consisting of at least three
members, including an independent full professor or assistant/
associate professor holding a doctorate. This independent member
is not involved in the doctoral research, is from outside the
promotor's research group and preferably works outside the
promotor's department. Close family members with an affinity up to

and including the fourth degree or other persons with such a
relationship to the doctoral candidate that they cannot make an
independent judgement will not be eligible to act as committee
members.

7.4.
If the intended promotor reaches a Go decision, as a result of which
the Doctoral Programme can proceed, the intended promotor will,
within two weeks of the decision, request that the faculty Graduate
School formally register the doctoral candidate with the Board for
Doctorates for further admission to the Doctoral Programme. At the
same time, the intended promotor will ask to be appointed as a
promotor by the Board for Doctorates and also ask them to appoint
any copromotor.

7.5.
Within four weeks of the requests referred to in the previous
paragraph, the Board for Doctorates will notify the doctoral
candidate whether the doctoral candidate has been formally
admitted to the Doctoral Programme and of the appointment of the
promotor and any copromotor, who will also be notified of this.

7.6.
If the intended promotor reaches a No-Go decision, the Doctoral
Programme will end for the doctoral candidate and the doctoral
candidate's registration at TU Delft will be terminated.

7.7.
In addition to a termination of the Doctoral Programme as referred
to in paragraph 6 of this article, the Doctoral Programme will end
and the doctoral candidate's registration at TU Delft will be
terminated:

\- through termination by the doctoral candidate;

\- through termination by the Board for Doctorates.

7.8
If the doctoral candidate wishes to terminate the Doctoral Programme, the
doctoral candidate will inform the Board for Doctorates in writing, stating
the reasons. The Board for Doctorates can ask the doctoral candidate, the
director of the Faculty Graduate School involved and/or the (co)promotor
for a clarification.

7.9
The Board for Doctorates can proceed to terminate the Doctoral
Programme if:

a.
the doctoral candidate fails to fulfil interim agreements with
the promotor after being repeatedly summoned in writing to
meet these requests;

b.
In interim evaluations, it repeatedly becomes apparent that
the progress made by the PHD candidate does not provide
sufficient grounds for the promoter to expect the candidate to
submit a (draft) dissertation that meets the requirements set
by the promoter based on the promoter's responsibility for the
dissertation as the basis for the promotion.

C.
the doctoral candidate has not, during a period of at least six
months, responded to repeated requests by the promotor for
detailed consultation about the content and progress of the

d.
(draft) doctoral dissertation;

the Board for Doctorates decides not to appoint another
promotor as referred to in Article 10 paragraph 6;

e.
the Board for Doctorates, acting on a proposal by the director
of the Faculty Graduate School involved or otherwise, deems
that it cannot reasonably be demanded of the TU Delft to
continue with the Doctoral Programme.

The termination by the Board for Doctorates will take place in writing,
stating reasons.
Article 8 Supervision of the doctoral candidate

8.1.
A doctoral candidate is supervised, in any event, by a promotor and
one or two (co)promotor(s). If the doctorate involves collaboration
with another university or knowledge institution, a fourth (co)promotor
may be appointed.

8.2
The Board for Doctorates appoints one or more TU Delft full
professors or staff members with a doctorate who have been awarded
the ius promovendi as promotor. The third (co)promotor can be
replaced by an external adviser. At least one of the promotors must
have an employment contract with TU Delft and be sufficiently
available for the performance of the duties and responsibilities of a
promotor. In addition to the promotor(s) referred to above, a promotor
from another Dutch or foreign institution for higher education and
research can be appointed, provided that said promotor has the ius
promovendi from that institution. In the event that the doctorate
involves collaboration with another university and four (co)promotor(s)
are appointed, a maximum of two of the (co)promotor(s) must have an
employment contract with TU Delft.

8.3
Close family members with an affinity up to and including the fourth
degree or other persons with such a relationship to the doctoral
candidate such that they cannot reasonably be expected to make an
independent judgement on the doctoral candidate will not be eligible
to act as promotor or copromotor.

8.4
A full professor or associate professor given an honourable discharge
will, until five years after being discharged, retain the right to act as
promotor to the doctoral candidate for whom the full professor or
associate professor who has been given an honourable discharge
was appointed as promotor by the Board for Doctorates, on condition
that the Board for Doctorates agrees to the continuation of the
promotorship. In such cases, the Board for Doctorates can determine
that an additional (co)promotor be appointed from the academic staff.

8.5
At the promotor's request the Board for Doctorates can appoint a
copromotor and/or an external adviser instead of a third (co)promotor.
The copromotor appointed must be an employee at TU Delft or an
institute of higher education with which TU Delft as an institution has a
cooperation agreement. Anyone who has been awarded a doctorate,
is a member of the academic staff, has specific expertise in the
scientific area to which the doctoral dissertation relates and does not
have the ius promovendi can be appointed as copromotor. Anyone
who is an expert in the scientific area of the doctoral dissertation, or a
part thereof, can be appointed as an external adviser. The appointed
copromotor or the external adviser must also be involved in the daily
supervision of the doctoral candidate.

8.6
If there are several intended promotors or copromotors, they will
appoint one of them as coordinator. The coordinator is responsible for
communication with the doctoral candidate, the Faculty Graduate
School, the University Graduate School, the Board for Doctorates and
other parties involved, such as fellow promotors and copromotors, in
so far it concerns issues related to the Doctoral Regulations. The term
promotor in these Regulations should be interpreted as 'corresponding
promotor' and signifies the coordinating (co)promotor. In the event of a
difference of opinion between the various promotors (or intended
promotors), the Board for Doctorates will act as it sees fit.

8.7
The Board for Doctorates will appoint the promotor and possibly also
the copromotor and the external adviser after a Go decision has been
made (to proceed with the Doctoral Programme), as stipulated in
Article 7.

8.8
The Board for Doctorates may decide not to appoint the (co)promotor
or external adviser, or to remove an appointed (co)promotor or
external adviser from their positions in the event of serious neglect of
their duties and responsibilities. Prior to the decision referred to, the
Board will give the (co)promotor or external adviser involved the
opportunity to present their case. At the request of a (co)promotor, the
Board for Doctorates can also remove a (co)promotor or external
adviser from their positions.

Article 9
Duties and responsibilities of promotor and copromotor

9.1.
The promotor is responsible for supervising the doctoral candidate
throughout the entire Doctoral Programme and in preparing the
doctoral dissertation. There will be regular consultations between
the promotor and the doctoral candidate. The supervision provided
will aim to ensure that:

a.
the research is conducted in accordance with Article 5;

b.
the draft doctoral dissertation is submitted and approved
within a reasonable period after the start of the doctoral
research;

C.
the doctoral candidate develops to become a fully
fledged scientific researcher;

d.
the doctoral candidate follows and successfully
completes the DE Programme;

e.
the progress of the doctoral candidate is regularly
discussed, and the resulting agreements are set down in
writing in a system designated for this and submitted to the
Faculty Graduate School.

9.2.
In case a copromotor has been appointed, the tasks and authority
formulated in these Regulations shall, as far as possible be jointly
exercised by the promotor and copromotor. In this case, the use of
the term promotor in these Regulations shall also be understood the
copromotor, where applicable.

9.3.
The promotor assesses the draft doctoral dissertation based on
the requirements that the promotor sets for the dissertation as the
basis for awarding the doctorate, considering the promotor's
responsibility for the doctoral dissertation.

In assessing the draft doctoral dissertation, the promotor will take
account of the following factors:

a.
the relevance of the subject;

b.
the importance of the problem definition and its
precise formulation;

C.
the originality of the approach and process;

d.
the scientific nature of the research: organisation, analysis,
processing of materials and synthesis;

e.
the presence of creative suggestions with regard to the
area of science treated in the doctoral dissertation;

f.
a critical confrontation of the candidate's conclusions with existing
theories or views;

g.
a balanced structure in the doctoral dissertation;
clarity of style, correct and appropriate use of language;

h.
the absence of anything at odds with public order or
decency;

i.
the absence of plagiarism, and

j.
the other provisions stipulated in Article 5.2.

9.4.
In consultation with the doctoral candidate and other persons
involved in preparing the draft doctoral dissertation, the promotor
can propose changes and/or additions.

9.5.
The promotor

–
–
notifies the Board for Doctorates in writing that the
draft doctoral dissertation has been approved;
attaches the approval of the propositions;

–
submits a proposal for composition of a
doctoral committee;

–
after receipt of the judgement of the doctoral
committee, provides written notification of the approval
of the definitive doctoral dissertation and;

–

makes the necessary preparations for the
doctoral defence ceremony in accordance with
the Doctoral Regulations and the
Implementation Decree.
Article 10 Approval of draft doctoral dissertation

10.1.
Upon the request of the doctoral candidate for the approval of the
draft doctoral dissertation, the promotor shall decide if the doctoral
candidate has met the requirements as mentioned in these
doctoral regulations.

10.2.
If more than one promotor and/or copromotor have been appointed,
the approval of the draft doctoral dissertation is reached through
mutual consultation between them. If consensus is reached, the
promotor will provide a written notification of this mutual agreement
to the Board for Doctorates, while also sending a copy to the
doctoral candidate.

10.3.
If this consultation does not result in agreement, each promotor will
notify the Board for Doctorates, while also sending a copy to the
doctoral candidate, of each promotor's evaluative and substantiated
judgement, after which the Board for Doctorates will take
appropriate action.

10.4.
The promotor shall decide to approve or refuse to approve the
draft dissertation within two months of receipt of the draft doctoral
dissertation, unless the doctoral candidate agrees to a longer
decision period. In case the deadline of this period is exceeded,
the doctoral candidate may request the Board for Doctorates to

instruct the promotor to make a decision on the approval by a
certain deadline. The Board for Doctorates shall decide within
one week after receiving the request.

10.5.
In the event of a refusal to approve the draft doctoral dissertation,
the Board for Doctorates, at the request of the doctoral
candidate, and after allowing the latter and the promotor the
opportunity to present their cases, relieve the promotor from their
respective promotor duties. The Board for Doctorates will appoint
another promotor, in case it deems that the doctoral trajectory
can continue, with amendments and modifications to the draft
doctoral dissertation. The Board for Doctorates will not appoint
an alternative promotor, when a new appointment is not
necessary, which may be the case if multiple promotors have
been appointed. The appointment of an alternative promotor will
only take place after the dean of the faculty concerned has been
given the opportunity to offer advice.

10.6.
If, in the situation described in the previous paragraph, the Board
for Doctorates judges that the Doctoral Programme cannot
proceed even with amendments and modifications to the draft
doctoral dissertation because of its insufficient quality, it will not
appoint an alternative promotor.
Article 11 Application for doctoral defence ceremony

11.1.
After the draft doctoral dissertation has been approved by the
promotor and the doctoral candidate has successfully
completed the DE Programme, or been awarded full
dispensation from it, the doctoral candidate can apply for the
doctoral defence ceremony. For this purpose, the doctoral
candidate must, with the approval of the promotor, submit a
request for a provisional defence ceremony date.

11.2.
The following must be appended to this request:

a.
the definitive title of the doctoral dissertation and a digital
copy of the draft doctoral dissertation with propositions;

b.
a written statement from the promotor confirming that the promotor
has approved the draft doctoral dissertation, that it is free of
plagiarism and that all relevant research data/code on which the
doctoral dissertation is based are FAIR (Findable, Accessible,
Interoperable and Reusable) by sharing them in a research data
repository.

Article 12 Composition of Doctoral Committee

12.1.
A doctoral committee consists of at least six and at most eight
members and is composed as follows:

a.
the Rector Magnificus or a member of the Doctoral
Examination Working Committee as chairperson;

b.
the promotor;

C.
at least four independent members, as described in 12.2;

d.
possibly one or two extra (co)promotor(s);

e.
possibly another extra member, which also includes an external
adviser as referred to in Article 8 of these Regulations.

12.2.
All members act as examiner during the doctoral defence ceremony
and have the task of assessing the doctoral dissertation. An
independent member has not been involved in the preparation of the
doctoral dissertation. An independent member should be able to give
an independent assessment of the quality of the doctoral dissertation
and the doctoral candidate without having any personal stakes in the
outcomes of the assessment and that of the other members of the
doctoral committee.

12.3.
The expertise of the members in the field of science of the doctoral
dissertation or part of it is required. This requirement does not apply
to the chairperson.

12.4.
Close family members with an affinity up to and including the fourth degree or
other persons with such a relationship to the doctoral candidate that they
cannot make an independent judgement will not be eligible to act as
members of the doctoral committee.

12.5.
At least three independent members will have ius promovendi at a
Dutch or foreign university, of whom at least one must be employed
at TU Delft as full professor and at least one at an institute for higher
education other than TU Delft.

12.6.
The other members will be holders of a doctorate. The Board for
Doctorates may depart from this requirement in response to a
substantiated request from the promotor.

12.7.
If the doctoral committee includes only one independent member
who is employed at TU Delft as a full professor, another TU Delft full
professor must be added to the committee as a back-up member. If
the doctoral committee consists of four independent members, a
back-up member must be added to the committee. The back-up
committee member, does not have to be a full professor at TU Delft
if the

committee already has two independent members who have been
appointed full professors at TU Delft. The back up committee
member must be available on-call until ten minutes before the time
of the doctoral defence ceremony and will only be part of the
committee if the aforementioned independent member is unable to
take part in the doctoral defence ceremony. The back up member is
exempt from the assessment of the doctoral dissertation and the
propositions, but must be sufficiently familiar with the doctoral
dissertation and the propositions to act as an examiner.
Article 13 Appointment of Doctoral Committee and announcement of provisional doctoral defence date

13.1.
At the latest twelve weeks before the provisional defence
ceremony date, the promotor will submit a written and
substantiated proposal for the composition of the doctoral
committee. The promotor should be convinced that the members
will accept the appointment and be present at the doctoral
defence ceremony on the provisional defence ceremony date.
This committee proposal will include relevant details concerning
the proposed committee members, including the evaluation of
their independence as intended in Article 12.2.

3.2. Within one week after receipt of the committee composition
proposal, the Board for Doctorates will decide on the appointment
of members of the doctoral committee. A written notification will be
sent concerning this decision to the promotor, the doctoral
candidate and the members of the doctoral committee.

13.3.
If the Board for Doctorates does not agree to the composition of
the doctoral committee proposed by the promotor, it will request a
new proposal on this from the promotor. The Board for Doctorates
reserves the right to appoint members to the doctoral committee.

13.4.
The members of the doctoral committee will confirm whether or not
they agree to their appointment as soon as possible to the Board for
Doctorates and the promotor, at the latest within two weeks of their
appointment.

13.5.
Once the members of the doctoral committee have confirmed
their presence and availability, the provisional doctoral
defence date is announced.

Article 14 Assessment of draft doctoral dissertation by doctoral committee

14.1.
At the latest in the eleventh week before the provisional
defence date, the Graduate School Office will send each of the
proposed members of the doctoral committee and the Board
for Doctorates a copy of the draft doctoral dissertation.

14.2.
Within six weeks of their appointment, the doctoral committee
members will report in writing to the Board for Doctorates and a
copy thereof to the promotor. They will report on their evaluative
judgement of the draft doctoral dissertation. The draft dissertation
should show sufficient evidence that the doctoral candidate is
capable of independently practising science and whether the
doctoral candidate can be admitted to the doctoral defence
ceremony. The promotor makes sure the doctoral committee
members communicate their judgement timely to the Board for
Doctorates.

14.3.
Doctoral committee members can vote on admission to the doctoral
defence ceremony as follows:

A.
Approval without reservation: the member considers
written comments to be unnecessary or advises
stylistic/textual improvements that have no impact on the
conclusions but aim to improve readability;

B.
Approval with reservation: the member is of the opinion
that essential corrections need to be made to the doctoral
dissertation before approval can be given for admission
and gives detailed indications of these to the doctoral
candidate and the promotor within four weeks of the
member's appointment to the committee and notifies the
Board for Doctorates about this;

C.
No approval: the member does not consider the doctoral
dissertation to be of sufficient academic quality and level
and is of the opinion that the doctoral candidate cannot be
admitted to the doctoral defence ceremony. The member
may also indicate that a revised version of the draft
doctoral dissertation can be submitted after serious
substantive conditions have been met.

14.4.
The result of the vote referred to in paragraph 3 is 'postponement of
the doctoral defence ceremony' if at least:

a.
two members vote according to 14.3 C,

b.
one member votes according to 14.3 C and two according to 14.3 B,
or

C.
three members vote according to 14.3 B.

14.5.
If the vote of the members of the doctoral committee shows
that the doctoral candidate can be admitted to the doctoral

defence ceremony, the doctoral candidate and the promotor, if
applicable, must take the written comments referred to in
paragraph 3 into account in the definitive version of the
doctoral dissertation. On the basis of the written comments of
a committee member, the Board for Doctorates can decide to
contact the promotor to ascertain whether these comments
are being taken into account in the definitive version of the
doctoral dissertation.

14.6.
If the result of the vote is 'postponement of the doctoral defence
ceremony', the Board for Doctorates will give the promotor an
opportunity to present a counterargument. The Board for
Doctorates will urge the promotor to take account of the
committee's objections in a new draft doctoral dissertation. If the
promotor, following consultation with the doctoral candidate, agrees
to a new draft doctoral dissertation being prepared and to the
postponement, a new defence ceremony date will be agreed on,
after the revised draft doctoral dissertation has been approved. The
revised draft doctoral dissertation will be resubmitted to the doctoral
committee, who will again assess it and vote in accordance with
this Article.

14.7.
If the involvement of the Rector Magnificus referred to in paragraph
6 does not result in agreement with the promotor, the Board for
Doctorates will decide on the postponement of the doctoral defence
ceremony. Based on its findings, the Board for Doctorates can
refuse to hold the doctoral defence ceremony if it does not have
confidence that its postponement will result in improved quality of
the doctoral dissertation. In that case, the doctoral committee will be
disbanded, and the Board for Doctorates will then act according to
the relevant circumstances.
Article 15 Preparations for the doctoral defence ceremony

15.1.
After the promotor has approved the definitive doctoral dissertation,
and has notified the Board for Doctorates about this, the date and
time of the doctoral defence ceremony are set definitively on behalf
of the Board for Doctorates.

15.2.
The Graduate School Office will ensure that the doctoral
defence ceremony is announced at least one week before the
set date. The Graduate School Office will ensure that the
doctoral candidate is aware of the doctoral defence ceremony
protocol at least two weeks before the doctoral defence
ceremony. Two weeks before the doctoral defence ceremony
at the latest, the doctoral candidate will contact the chairperson
of the doctoral committee and make an appointment with the
chairperson. If desired, the doctoral candidate will also make

an appointment with the other members of the doctoral
committee.

15.3.
If persons who are not members of the doctoral committee wish to
examine the candidate, a written request to this effect must be
submitted at the latest two weeks before the provisional defence
ceremony date to the Board for Doctorates, which will make a
decision on whether to honour the request within one week. An
examiner of this type must hold a doctorate or be authorised to act
as a promotor.
Article 16 Doctoral defence ceremony

16.1.
The doctoral defence ceremony takes place in public before the
Board for Doctorates or a doctoral committee established by it. The
doctoral defence ceremony is chaired by the Rector Magnificus, a
member of the Doctoral Examination Working Committee or a
member of the Board for Doctorates. The doctoral committee
convenes for a closed meeting before the public defence. In the case
of exceptional circumstances or on the basis of a substantial request
by the doctoral candidate, the Board for Doctorates can decide to
hold a fully or partially closed doctoral defence ceremony.
Such a request must be submitted two weeks before the doctoral
defence ceremony, if possible.

16.2.
The doctoral candidate will spend one hour defending the
doctoral dissertation and the propositions in the face of the
reservations of the doctoral committee, as well as anyone given
permission in accordance with Article 15.3. During the defence
of the doctoral dissertation and the propositions, the doctoral
candidate can be assisted by one or two paranymphs
(supporters).

16.3.
After the defence, the session will be adjourned for deliberations
by the doctoral committee.

16.4.
If permission is obtained in advance from the Board for
Doctorates, it is possible for the doctoral defence ceremony to
take place partially in digital form, whereby members of the
doctoral committee will participate via a secure video connection
provided by the Board for Doctorates. In exceptional cases it may
be permitted for the doctoral candidate (also) to take part in the
session by digital means. The chairperson and at least one
promotor from the doctoral committee are always physically
present at the session. The chairperson determines the procedure
during a hybrid session.

Article 17 Awarding of the degree of Doctor

17.1.
The decision on the awarding of the degree of Doctor will be
taken in a closed meeting of the doctoral committee immediately
after the adjournment of the doctoral defence ceremony. The
chairperson will ask the members for their judgement on the
defence in particular and will also take into account the quality of
the doctoral dissertation and propositions. If at least one member
of the doctoral committee demands it, a roll call vote will be held
on the proposal to award the degree of Doctor. In this context, the
committee members vote for or against awarding, or abstain. The
degree of Doctor is not awarded if at least:

a.
two members vote against;

b.
one member votes against and two members abstain;

C.
three members abstain.

In appropriate cases, the chairperson can issue a written
report on the closed meeting to the Board for Doctorates.

17.2.
If the degree of Doctor is awarded, the chairperson of the doctoral
committee and the promotor (and where applicable also the
copromotor) will sign the certificate. When the doctoral defence
ceremony is reconvened, the chairperson will inform the doctoral
candidate that the doctoral committee has decided on behalf of the
Board for Doctorates to award the doctoral degree.

If the designation cum laude is also to be attached to the doctorate,
this will also be announced. The chairperson will explicitly draw the
attention of the Doctor to the scientific integrity associated with
obtaining a doctorate.

17.3.
In the event that the degree of Doctor is not awarded after the vote referred to
in paragraph 1,

a.
the chairperson will inform the doctoral candidate of this during the
meeting referred to in paragraph 1,

b.
after reconvening the doctoral defence ceremony, the
chairperson will announce that the awarding of the
degree of Doctor is to be postponed and will then close
the session, and

C.
the chairperson will provide notification of the decision
made by the doctoral committee in writing to the Rector
Magnificus who will then convene a special session of the
doctoral committee, together with the Board for
Doctorates.

17.4.
The result of the session referred to in paragraph 3 c can either be
that the doctoral candidate is readmitted to defend the doctoral
dissertation and propositions or that the degree of Doctor is not

awarded. The Rector Magnificus will inform the doctoral candidate of
this decision in writing, together with the reasons for it.

17.5.
Candidates who are awarded the degree of Doctor receive the
certificate referred to in paragraph 2. The form and content of the
certificate is established by the Board for Doctorates. If the
designation cum laude referred to in Article 18 is awarded, this is
indicated on the certificate.

17.6.
On request, the Board for Doctorates will issue a replacement
certificate to the owner of the certificate referred to in paragraph 2 in
connection with a change to the name of the person in question as
a consequence of the application of Articles 4, fourth paragraph, 7,
first paragraph, or 28b second paragraph of Book 1 of the Dutch
Civil Code. The replacement certificate will contain no other
changes to the original relevant details. The replacement certificate
is to be issued after proof of identity has been provided and subject
to the condition that the original certificate is handed in to the TU
Delft Graduate School Office.
Article 18 Awarding of the degree of Doctor with designation cum laude

18.1.
If the promotor or another member of the doctoral committee is of
the opinion that the doctoral dissertation shows evidence of
exceptional competence on the part of the doctoral candidate to
practice science independently, the promotor or another member of
the doctoral committee can submit a proposal in writing, including
full substantiation, for the awarding of the degree of Doctor with
designation cum laude. A proposal of this kind can only be
submitted after the promotor has agreed to it. The proposal will be
accompanied by a recent curriculum vitae of the doctoral candidate
and at least two letters of recommendation from leading external
experts in the area of science concerned, who are not members of
the doctoral committee. These experts are not close family members
with an affinity up to and including the fourth degree or have such a
relationship to the doctoral candidate that they cannot make an
independent judgement about the doctoral candidate.

18.2.
The following criteria apply to the awarding of the designation cum laude:

a.
the doctoral research conducted is pioneering and
innovative;

b.
the candidate has reached the result independently;

C.
the doctoral dissertation was completed within a
reasonable period;

d.
the candidate's publications and appearances in the
scientific community have made an impression on

e.

leading colleagues;

the candidate has preferably also demonstrated
the implications of the research for technology
and science.

The doctoral committee can also take into account publications or
other evidence of outstanding scientific quality.

18.3.
The proposal referred to in paragraph 1 must be in the
possession of the Rector Magnificus at the latest five weeks
before the agreed defence ceremony date. The Rector
Magnificus will assess whether the nomination meets the
procedural criteria. If the proposal is declared admissible, the
Rector Magnificus will notify the other members of the doctoral
committee and issue them with copies of the proposal and the
referees' letters. If the proposal is not sufficiently substantiated to
enable a decision to be taken, the Rector Magnificus will contact
the promotor. The proposal may be rewritten and enhanced, after
which the Rector Magnificus will make a decision on the
application. If the proposal is rejected, the applicant and the
chairperson of the doctoral committee are notified to this effect.

The proposal as well as the referees' letters must be handled strictly
and confidentially at all times and only made known to members of
the doctoral committee.

18.4.
If a proposal to award the degree of Doctor with designation cum
laude has been made and there are no objections from the Board for
Doctorates, the doctoral committee will include it in its deliberations
prior to the doctoral defence ceremony.

18.5.
Deliberations will be held on the proposal to award the degree of
Doctor with designation cum laude during the meeting referred to in
Article 17.1. This will involve: the proposal, the content of the
doctoral dissertation and the propositions and their defence, the
criteria for the awarding of the designation cum laude and the letters
of recommendation.

18.6.
After the deliberations referred to in Article 17.1, all members of the
doctoral committee will vote anonymously and in writing on the
proposal to award the degree of Doctor with designation cum laude
and the decision on the awarding of it will be made. The following
voting protocol applies. The proposal will be rejected if at least:

a.
two members vote against;

b.
one member votes against and two members abstain;

C.
three members abstain.

Article 19
Disputes

19.1.
For these Regulations, a dispute is interpreted to mean an
objection to a decision by or on behalf of the Board for Doctorates
within the meaning of the General Administrative Law Act
(Algemene wet bestuursrecht) or a complaint against the conduct
of a doctoral candidate, promotor, copromotor, doctoral committee
member or another person involved in the Doctoral Programme.
The handling of a dispute will be subject to the General
Administrative Law Act (Algemene wet bestuursrecht). A dispute
concerning the legal status of a doctoral candidate with an
appointment is not included in this definition of dispute.

19.2.
An interested party can lodge an objection with the Board for
Doctorates to a decision by or on behalf of the Board for
Doctorates within six weeks of being informed of the decision.

19.3.
An independent committee appointed by the Board for Doctorates
will give advice on the objection. The Implementation Decree will
include further details of the composition and working methods of
the committee.

19.4.
The committee will give the parties involved the opportunity to
present their cases and will be entitled to elicit information that is
necessary for it to exercise its duty responsibly.

19.5.
Within six weeks of the objection being lodged, the committee will
issue written advice to the Board for Doctorates together with a
report of the hearings.

19.6.
The Board will decide on the objection with due observance of the
time periods specified in the General Administrative Law Act.

19.7.
The provisions of paragraphs 2 to 6 will apply mutatis
mutandis to the handling of a complaint as defined in the first
paragraph.

Article 20
Mediation

20.1.
Before a dispute can be handled, the Board for Doctorates must
submit the dispute for mediation to the director of the Faculty
Graduate School or to another person appointed for this purpose
by the Board for Doctorates. The mediator will investigate whether
an amicable settlement of the dispute is possible and will hold
hearings with the parties involved in the dispute for this purpose.

20.2.
If the mediation does not result in agreement within four weeks, the
person who raised the dispute can request, within two weeks after
completion of the mediation, that the Board for Doctorates handle
the dispute. With the consent of the person who raised the dispute,

the deadlines in Articles 19.5 and 19.6 will be extended to take
account of the mediation.

20.3.
An interested party can turn to the director of the Faculty Graduate
School directly for mediation in a dispute. Paragraph 1, sentence 2
and paragraph 2, sentence 1 apply in this case. The period for
submitting a dispute to the Board for Doctorates will, by way of
departure from Article 19.2, begin after the interested party has been
notified of the result of mediation.

20.4.
This article does not apply to an objection by a doctoral
candidate to a No-Go decision by the intended promotor,
referred to in Article 7.6.

20.5.
The provisions of paragraphs 1 to 3 of this Article will apply mutatis
mutandis to the handling of a complaint as defined in the first
paragraph of Article 19.1.
Article 21 Honorary doctorate

21.1.
Following nomination by a dean or the Executive Board, the Board
for Doctorates has the power to award an honorary doctorate to:

a.
a person who has conducted research that has been
shown to be of exceptional significance to the practice of
science at the university or for science in general, and that
of TU Delft in particular;

b.
a person who, from a scientific, cultural or societal
perspective, has either directly or indirectly
contributed exceptionally to academic education
and research.

21.2.
If the Board for Doctorates intends to approve a nomination by a
dean to award an honorary doctorate, the Executive Board will be
invited to present its views on this nomination in confidence. After
taking cognisance of the Executive Board's position, the Board for

Doctorates will make a decision on the awarding of the honorary
doctorate.

21.3.
If the Board for Doctorates decides to award an honorary doctorate,
it will also appoint one or more TU Delft full professors as promotor.
Confidential notification of the decision will be made to the doctoral
candidate, the promotor and the dean of the faculty involved. The
decision will not be made public until the doctoral candidate has
declared a willingness to accept the honorary doctorate.

21.4.
The awarding of the honorary doctorate will take place in a public,
special session of the Board for Doctorates. On behalf of the
Rector Magnificus, the promotor will confer the dignity awarded on
the honorary doctoral candidate, while expressing words of praise
and appreciation. As proof of the dignity awarded, the honorary
Doctor will be presented with a shoulder cape and a certificate
signed by the Rector Magnificus.
Article 22 Final provisions

22.1.
The Board for Doctorates can determine more specific rules in the
Implementation Decree, including rules concerning the following:

a.
admission to the doctoral defence ceremony in exceptional cases
(Article 2.3);

b.
the joint doctorate (Article 2.4);

C.
the requirements for and the form of the doctoral dissertation;

d.
the requirements for and the form of the propositions;

e.
the procedure for the doctoral conferral ceremony and the defence;

f.
the settlement of disputes;

g.
continuation of promotorship after the honourable discharge of a full
professor.

22.2.
The Board for Doctorates may prescribe (digital) forms that must be
used by the parties involved in the acts included in these
Regulations.

22.3.
In cases not covered in these Doctoral Regulations, or if any Article
is susceptible to multiple interpretations, the Board for Doctorates
will decide.

22.4.
Anyone who wishes to be exempted from a provision in the
Doctoral Regulations must submit a written and substantiated
request to that effect to the Board for Doctorates, which will reach a
decision on it within 30 days.

22.5.
In exceptional cases, the Board for Doctorates can allow
substantiated departures from that stipulated in these Regulations ..

Article 23 Transitional provisions

Decisions that precede the entry into force of these Regulations, or any
amendments to it, made concerning the appointment of the promotor and
copromotor, the composition of the doctoral committee or exemptions from or
amendments to that stipulated in these Regulations will remain in full force.

TUDelft Implementation decree on Doctoral Regulations 2023

Implementation decree on Doctoral Regulations 2023

Implementation decree on Doctoral Regulations

This implementation decree clarifies a number of articles of the TU Delft
Doctoral Regulations 2023 and provides guidelines on protocol and practice
for their implementation and enforcement, as mentioned in Article 22 and
other articles of the Doctoral Regulations, accepted by the Board for
Doctorates on 19 June 2023.

Table of Contents

A. 
Admission to the doctoral defence ceremony in exceptional cases (Article 2.3 Doctoral Regulations) 
5 

B. 
Joint doctorate (Article 3 Doctoral Regulations) 
6 

C. 
Further explanation of Doctoral Education Programme (Article 6 Doctoral Regulations) 

9 

D. 
Requirements and format of doctoral dissertation (Articles 5 and 9.3 Doctoral Regulations) 

10 

E. 
Requirements for the propositions 

(Article 9.5 Doctoral Regulations) 
17 

F. 
Preparation for and procedures during the doctoral defence ceremony and the awarding of the degree of doctor 

(Articles 15, 16, 17 and 18 Doctoral Regulations) 
18 

G. 
Disputes Advisory Committee 

(Article 19.3 Doctoral Regulations) 
25 

H. 
Continuation of promotorship after the honourable discharge of a full professor (Article 8.4 Doctoral Regulations) 

26 

Appendices:

I: 
Further remarks on the propositions 
27 

I. 
Certificate 
29 

III: 
Timeline for final phase of Doctoral Programme 
30 

A. Admission to the doctoral defence ceremony in exceptional cases (Article 2.3 Doctoral Regulations)

1\.
Any individual who does not meet the educational requirements
specified in Article 2.2 paragraph a of the TU Delft Doctoral
Regulations may submit a request to the Board for Doctorates to
gain admission to the doctoral defence ceremony:

a. if the individual can provide proof of possession of a diploma that
is comparable to the Dutch Master level;

b. If 1.a does not apply: on the basis of a reasoned
recommendation from the intended promotor for exemption
from these requirements.

2\.
a. The applicant must submit the following, in the context of the
assessment of Article 1.a:

\- a certified copy of the highest-level certificate of
education obtained by the applicant;

\- the transcript of records pertaining to these certificates;

\- if the certificate and the transcript of records are not written in
Dutch, English, French or German, certified translations of
these documents into Dutch or English should also be included;

\- a curriculum vitae;

b. In the context of assessment of the request on the basis of
article 1.b, and before submission of the documents referred to
in paragraph a of this article, the applicant must submit a
reasoned recommendation by the promotor explaining why the
candidate should be admitted to the doctoral programme.
Existing expertise and relevant work experience in the field
should also be described in detail.

c. The request described in paragraph b of this article must be
submitted to the Faculty Graduate School director. If the director
approves, said director will submit the request together with any
recommendations to the Board for Doctorates.

d. The Board for Doctorates will decide on the basis of the documents
submitted whether the applicant will be allowed to start the doctoral
programme. The Board for Doctorates may impose additional
requirements for the Doctoral Education Programme to be followed
by the candidate.

e. The Graduate School Office notifies the intended promotor and the
candidate as quickly as possible regarding the decision taken.

B. Joint doctorate (Article 3 Doctoral Regulations)

1\.
The following criteria are used in the evaluation by the Board for
Doctorates (although others may be added) in addition to the
academic criteria that apply to every doctorate:

a. the strategic importance to TU Delft of the collaboration;

b. the reputation (ranking) of the partner institution;

c. the practicability of cooperation;

d. the financial consequences resulting from the cooperation.
The following variants are possible for joint doctorates:
a. A joint doctorate degree leading to one coherent diploma per institution

A joint doctorate leading to one coherent (dual) diploma from each
institution, as defined in article 3.1.b of the Doctorate Regulations,
is possible under the following conditions:

\- There is a long-term collaboration between the partner
institutions (guideline: minimum duration of 10 years), as
evidenced by a cooperation agreement between them, in
accordance with the model given in the 'Guidelines for drawing
up agreements for joint doctoral supervision' (hereinafter:
Guidelines);

\- Several doctoral candidates should be involved in this
collaboration under the supervision of both institutions and
for whom both have a shared responsibility (guideline: at
least 10 doctoral candidates);

\- For the joint responsibility of providing supervision to the
doctoral candidate, an agreement will be made regarding the
mutually applicable quality standards for the Doctoral
Programme and the doctoral dissertation in accordance with
the model set out in the Guidelines. This agreement is signed
by the Rector Magnificus, as chairperson of the Board for
Doctorates;

\- Agreements are made for the joint doctoral research and
Doctoral Education between the partner institutions, the
promotors and the candidate in accordance with the model set
out in the Guidelines. A copy of this agreement must be
submitted to the Faculty Graduate School within 3 months of
commencement of the doctoral research.
b. One diploma

A joint doctorate leading to one (joint) diploma, as defined
in Article 3.1.a of the Doctorate Regulations, is possible
only in exceptional cases. The explicit permission of the
Board for Doctorates is required for this, which must
consult in advance with the Executive Board on this
matter.

3\.
The stipulations in the Doctoral Regulations will apply to the joint
doctorate, unless a departure from these stipulations is authorised by
the Board for Doctorates. Regulations and additional requirements
can only be deviated from in exceptional circumstances:

a. Successful completion of the DE programme (Article 6 Doctoral
Regulations);

b. The composition of the doctoral committee (Article 12 Doctoral
Regulations). Additional requirement, replacing Article 12.5 of the
Doctoral Regulations: At least three independent members will
have ius promovendi at a Dutch or foreign university, of whom at
least one must be employed at TU Delft or at the partner institution
as a full professor and at least one at an institute for higher
education other than TU Delft or the partner institution;

C.
Requirements for the doctoral dissertation (art. 9 and 14
Doctoral Regulations, Executive Decision parts D and E).
Additional requirement: supervision by partner institution to be
mentioned on reverse side of the title page;

d. The doctoral defence ceremony must be held at TU
Delft (Executive Decision part F);

e. Any doctorate issued on behalf of TU Delft cannot include the
designation 'cum laude'.

Unless otherwise agreed, the defence will be held at TU Delft in accordance
with the TU Delft Doctoral Regulations, and one diploma will be issued by
TU Delft, in accordance with the guidelines of TU Delft. The partner
institution will also issue a diploma.

4\.
To the diploma to be issued, the following will apply:

a.
\- Both partner institutions refer to the cooperation in the diploma
text.

\- On the TU Delft diploma, in addition to the usual text, the
following words are to be included:

'This is a dual diploma together with the following partner institute for higher
education:
... [name, city, country] ... ,
stipulated in the diploma supplement and approved by the Board for
Doctorates.'

\- The partner institution must include the above text or
words of similar meaning on the diploma, the diploma
supplement or another document.

b. A supplement written in English will be added to the TU
Delft diploma stating:

\- the name of the research groups and supervisors who were
involved in the realisation of the dissertation;

\- the subject of the research;

\- the education and training courses completed, if these are not stated on
the Doctoral Education certificate;

\- the conferences at which the candidate has presented
the work done;

\- the publications to which the candidate has made a significant
contribution, as evidenced by (co)authorship.

The partner institution must include the above sections insofar
as possible on the diploma supplement or another document.

c. The TU Delft Graduate School Office will provide a template for
the diploma supplement to be completed by the promotors. The
promotors may also propose adding relevant information relating
to the research and the education of the candidate. The
completed template is submitted, along with the approval of the
draft doctoral dissertation, to the Graduate School Office. The
Graduate School Office takes care of production of the
supplement, which is given a TU Delft seal and is signed by the
chairperson of the Board for Doctorates of TU Delft.

5\.
Regarding the doctoral defence ceremony, a formal statement will
be drawn up for the benefit of the partner institution detailing which
formal procedures relating to the evaluation of the doctoral
dissertation, its doctoral defence, and the awarding of the degree of
doctor have taken place. The statement will be signed by the
Rector Magnificus, or by an equivalent officer, together with the
diploma.

C. Further explanation of Doctoral Education Programme (Article 6 Doctoral Regulations)

1\.
The Doctoral Education (DE) program consists of the following three
categories: transferable, research-related and discipline-related
skills. For each category, a candidate must obtain 15 GS credits,
making a total of 45 GS credits, of which at least 5 GS credits must
be obtained by completing Learning on-the-job activities. 1 GS credit
equals 12 hours of Doctoral Education which includes up to four
hours of self- study.

2\.
The Board for Doctorates oversees the quality of the programme's
contents and can impose further quality requirements and/or reject
courses that do not conform to the overall quality requirements. In
addition, the Board for Doctorates may require certain courses to be
completed, such as an introductory course or a career development
course.

3\.
On the basis of a request by the doctoral candidate, the Board for
Doctorates can decide to grant the doctoral candidate an exemption
for part of the DE programme. In order to be able to attain a DE
certificate despite the exemption, the doctoral candidate must have
obtained at least 30 GS credits.

The following rules will apply in the case of an exemption request:

a. The application must be supplemented by a reasoned
request written entirely by the candidate;

b. The promotor and the FGS support the request before it is
sent to the Board for Doctorates via the UGS;

c. An exemption request must be submitted within one year after the start date
of the Doctoral Programme and involve a minimum of 5 GS credits;

d. No exemption will be granted for learning on-the-job activities.

4\.
On the basis of a request by the doctoral candidate, the Board for
Doctorates can decide to grant said the doctoral candidate dispensation
from the DE obligation, which means that the doctoral candidate is
wholly exempted from it. A dispensation is granted only in exceptional
circumstances, for example to very experienced doctoral candidates
who can demonstrate that they already have all the required skills at a
high level. The intended promotor and the doctoral candidate believe
that there are valid reasons to request a full dispensation from the DE
programme. A request for dispensation must be submitted within the
first four months from the start date of the Doctoral Programme to the
director of the Faculty Graduate School, who - if the director agrees to
it - will present the request to the Board for Doctorates. The granting of
the dispensation means that no DE certificate will be issued.

D. Requirements and format of doctoral dissertation (Articles 5 and 9.3 Doctoral Regulations)
Contents

1.1.
The subject of the doctoral dissertation must relate to the
academic fields into which research is being conducted at the
university.

1.2.
The doctoral dissertation must clearly demonstrate the ability of the
candidate to practise science in an independent manner. It will consist
of a scientific treatise, or a collection of articles previously published by
the candidate, or a combination of both of these.

1.3.
If one or more articles have been written by multiple authors, only
articles written predominantly by the doctoral candidate will be
accepted as doctoral articles. The doctoral candidate and the promotor
are responsible for ensuring that the other authors of articles included
in the doctoral dissertation have given their consent for this in writing.

1.4.
The doctoral dissertation must be free of plagiarism. The promotor is
responsible for ensuring that this is the case and is to make a statement
to this effect upon approving the draft doctoral dissertation. TU Delft
requires the promotor and doctoral candidate to submit a digital version
of the (draft) doctoral dissertation for a plagiarism scan using the
software made available for this by the TU Delft Library.

1.5.
The doctoral dissertation, particularly any foreword and/or epilogue,
may include a brief word of thanks expressed in an appropriate form of
language and in consultation with the promotor.
An acknowledgements section is also permitted, as is common practice
in international literature. These sections will not be considered as
proof of aptitude for the independent practice of science. With the
exception of these sections, the doctoral dissertation will not include
any expressions of beliefs (religious or otherwise), advertisements or
other writing that does not relate directly to the doctoral dissertation. To
the extent that such elements are contained in the text, they will be very
limited in size, and will not be offensive or contrary to public order or
common decency, and will comply with article 5.2 of the Doctorate
Regulations.

6\. The doctoral dissertation should also state which flow of funds
was used to (partly) finance the research , whereby the following
distinctions are to be made:

a. first flow of funds: funds allocated by the Ministry of Education, Culture and
Science to the university, including research, policy and education incentive
funds, etc.

b. second flow of funds: funds allocated by the Ministry of
Education, Culture and Science via the Netherlands
Organisation for Scientific Research (NWO) and its
foundations such as FOM, STW and SON;

C.
third flow of funds: funds from industry, institutions or
organisations, but also from the Royal Netherlands Academy
of Arts and Sciences (KNAW), IOP (even if FOM or STW act
as administrative secretary), the EU, or the Ministries of
Economic Affairs and Education, Culture and Science
themselves;

d.
fourth flow of funds: from other sources, such as self-
acquired grants or scholarships, donations, awards, interest,
profits from projects, etc.
Structure

The doctoral dissertation is to be structured as follows:

a.
a title page;

b.
a table of contents;

C.
a summary in Dutch and English;

d.
a foreword (optional);

e.
an introductory chapter, which explains the substantive coherence
of the issues addressed in the subsequent chapters;

f.
chapters containing treatises about the research and/or the design,
either based on prior publications by the candidate or not;

g.
a concluding chapter explaining the scientific and technical
implications for society of the research findings in considerable
detail;

h.
an epilogue (optional);

i.
an acknowledgements section (optional);

j.
curriculum vitae and a list of the doctoral candidate's publications.

The propositions are to be added to the doctoral dissertation on a
separate sheet (Executive Decision Part E).
Re: a. title page

The title page consists of two sides.

The front of the English-language title page bears the following text:

[ ... Title of dissertation ... ]
Dissertation
for the purpose of obtaining the degree of doctor
at Delft University of Technology
by the authority of the Rector Magnificus [titles, name];

Chair of the Board for Doctorates
to be defended publicly on
[date: weekday (in full) day (number), month (in full) year (number)] at
[hh:mm] o'clock
by
[first names in full and SURNAME in upper case]
[highest academic title, name university, country]
born in [town/city, country of birth]

The reverse of the English-language title page bears the following

text: This dissertation has been approved by the promotor[s].

Composition of the doctoral committee:

Rector Magnificus,
chairperson
[titles name]
Delft University of Technology, promotor
[Dr. titles name]
[affiliation], copromotor

Independent members:

Prof. [titles name] 
Delft University of Technology 

[titles name] 
[affiliation] 

[titles name] 
[affiliation] 

[titles name] 
[affiliation] 

The front of the Dutch-language title page bears the following text:

[

.... Title of dissertation ... ]

Proefschrift
ter verkrijging van de graad van doctor
aan de Technische Universiteit Delft,
op gezag van de Rector Magnificus prof. [titels, naam];
voorzitter van het College voor Promoties,
in het openbaar te verdedigen op
[date: weekday (in full) day (number), month (in full) year (number)] at
[hh:mm] o'clock by

[first names in full and SURNAME in capital letters] [academic title in full,
name of university, country]
geboren te [town/city, country of birth]

The reverse of the Dutch-language title page bears the following text:

Dit proefschrift is goedgekeurd door de promotor[en].

Samenstelling promotiecommissie bestaat uit:

Rector magnificus, 
voorzitter 

[titels naam] 
TU Delft, promotor 

[titels naam] 
[affiliatie], copromotor 

onafhankelijke leden:

Prof. [titels naam] 
TU Delft 

[titels naam] 
[affiliatie] 

[titels naam] 
[affiliatie] 

[titels naam] 
[affiliatie] 

To be added to this, where applicable:

a. the second promotor and/or copromotor;

b. other members of the doctoral committee (not being independent
members); a substitute member;

c. an explanation about any significant contributions to the
preparation of the dissertation by any member of the
committee: '[titles name] [affiliation] has, as supervisor,
contributed significantly to the preparation of this dissertation.

If the doctoral candidate has received substantial assistance or support in
preparing a doctoral dissertation from a member of TU Delft academic staff
other than the (co)promotor, or by a member of academic staff from an
external institute for scientific research, the name of that staff member and
their contribution can also be mentioned briefly on the title page, provided
the promotor consents to this.

Organisations or persons who have sponsored or made a financial
contribution to the realization of the dissertation and/or the related research
must be mentioned on the reverse side of the title page. See article D.1.6.

In the case of a joint diploma, as referred to in article 3 of the Doctoral
Regulations, this fact must be mentioned on the reverse side of the title page
as follows:

'The doctoral research has been carried out in the context of an agreement
on joint doctoral supervision between [name university, city, country], and
Delft University of Technology, the Netherlands.'

On the front of the title page, under the name of the candidate, the highest
obtained academic title as awarded in the country in which the candidate's
studies were completed is to be stated, followed by the name and country of
the university.

The title page, front and reverse, will be submitted by the doctoral candidate to
the Graduate School Office for review and approval on behalf of the Board for

Doctorates.
Re: b. table of contents

With the table of contents, it is possible to include a list to explain any abbreviations
and symbols, figures and tables.

Re: c. summary

The summary must in any case contain the following:

a. the research question;

b. a concise description of the research and/or design
methods;

c. a concise description of the results obtained;

d. conclusions and possible applications and implications.

The doctoral dissertation must in any case include a summary in Dutch
and in English.

The doctoral candidate will be offered the opportunity to have a summary of
the doctoral dissertation published in 'Doctoral dissertation Abstracts
International - Section C' (European Abstract).
Re: f. chapters containing treatises about the research and/or the design, either based on prior publications by the candidate or not

If the doctoral dissertation consists wholly or in part of previously published
papers, the following applies:

a. they must have been published in, or have been accepted
for publication by - preferably -reputable, international
scientific journals;

b. they must be consistent with the latest scientific knowledge at
the time when the doctoral dissertation is submitted, or must
be made consistent by means of editing or additional
comments;

c. they must demonstrate substantive coherence in terms of the
subjects addressed.

If the treatises relate to a doctoral design (article 1.4 of the Doctoral
Regulations), the chosen design methods, the design choices and the
(interim) results in the chapters must be described, documented and
discussed in a scientifically sound manner.

Careful references must be made to the literature consulted, either after each
individual chapter or after the final chapter for the entire doctoral dissertation.

Re: j. curriculum vitae and a list of the doctoral candidate's publications

At the end of the doctoral dissertation, a (concise) curriculum vitae of the
doctoral candidate must be included, stating:

a. date and place of birth;

b. which pre-university or comparable education the doctoral
candidate underwent, including relevant dates;

c. the nature of education undergone in preparation for the final
Master's examination and relevant dates;

d. any qualifications obtained with the diplomas;

e. if applicable, details of any professional practice after completing
the Master's degree;

f. the name of the institution at which the research was conducted.
Language

The doctoral dissertation is to be written in Dutch or in English, with English
being the preferred language. In those exceptional cases in which the
candidate wishes to use another language, a request must be submitted to
the Board for Doctorates before the draft doctoral dissertation is submitted to
the promotor. The request is to be accompanied by the written consent of the
promotor. The Board for Doctorates will communicate its decision concerning
this request in writing to the doctoral candidate, and will also send a copy to
the promotor.
Design

The doctoral dissertation will be in book form. The doctoral candidate is
responsible for the further design of the doctoral dissertation, according to
the conventions prevailing in the Netherlands in the academic field in
question.
Costs and distribution of the doctoral dissertation

a. The cost of printing and distributing the dissertation will in principle
be borne by the doctoral candidate. The dean of the promotor's
faculty can provide information about any (partial) reimbursement
for costs resulting from this. The faculty office must be contacted in
good time to discuss this.

b.
The number of copies of the dissertation to be produced for the
faculty will be determined in consultation with the promotor.

c. The doctoral candidate must bring two copies of the dissertation
with propositions in book form to the doctoral defence ceremony.

d. The members and chairperson of the doctoral committee must
have received a dissertation in book form, including propositions,
from the doctoral candidate no later than two weeks before the
set doctoral defence date.

e. When it comes to further distribution of copies of the dissertation,
a digital version may suffice.

f.
The doctoral candidate is required to make a digital version of the
dissertation (as a PDF file, or in some other agreed format)
available to the University Library for inclusion in the Open Access
TU Delft Repository.
Communications with the media

It is sometimes appropriate to draw the attention of selected media to the
content of a doctoral dissertation by means of a press release, or in some
other way. In some cases, the university's Press and Science Information
Office will issue a press release, either at the instigation of the promotor or
the doctoral candidate or not. The promotor and candidate will in any case
receive a copy of the press release in good time.

For the purpose of this press release, the doctoral candidate will provide the
university's Science Information Officer with a brief written explanation of the
key results and the possible applications of the doctoral research. The
Science Information Officer can provide further information on the structure
and content of the press release. The promotor may, after consultation with
and with the consent of the Rector Magnificus, request that until after the
doctoral defence ceremony has taken place an embargo be enforced on a
press release or press interviews with the doctoral candidate.

E. Requirements for the propositions (Article 9.5 Doctoral Regulations)

1\.
Propositions are to be added to the doctoral dissertation. As a
guideline, the total number of propositions should not exceed ten. The
promotor should approve the propositions on this basis, and the sheet
on which the propositions are printed should include the following
text:

'These propositions are regarded as opposable and defendable,
and have been approved as such by the promotor(s) [name
(co)promotor(s)].'

2\.
At least six propositions must not pertain to the subject of the
dissertation. This distinction must be clearly indicated by stating
under propositions where this is appropriate: 'This proposition
pertains to this dissertation.'

3\.
A maximum of two of the propositions may be somewhat playful in
nature, provided that they are opposable and defendable.

4\.
The propositions should demonstrate that the doctoral candidate
has a broad base of scientific knowledge that is not limited to the
subject of the doctoral dissertation. Possible subjects could
include:

a. new perspectives created by the doctoral dissertation;

b. results of incidental interest, which are not included in the
doctoral dissertation;

c. (critical) comments on the literature relating to technical
sciences;

d. comments on related disciplines and/or the methods used;

e.
speculative statements about future developments, which
cannot yet be definitively verified. The propositions should
preferably include literature references and/or sources.

5\.
The propositions are to be submitted together with the draft
doctoral dissertation.

6\.
The propositions are to be written in Dutch or in English, with
English being the preferred language, or where applicable in the
language in which the doctoral dissertation is written. Appendix I
contains further considerations relating to the quality of the
propositions.

F. Preparation for and procedures during the doctoral defence ceremony and the awarding of the degree of doctor (Articles 15, 16, 17 and 18 Doctoral Regulations)
Doctoral defence ceremony (general)

1.1.
1\. The doctoral defence ceremony takes place in public before the Board
for Doctorates or a doctoral committee established by it. The Rector
Magnificus chairs the doctoral defence ceremony. However, the Rector
Magnificus is generally represented by a member of the Doctoral
Examination Working Committee. Members of the Board for Doctorates
may also take the place of the Rector Magnificus and are in fact part of
the Working Committee.

1.2.
Once the date of the doctoral defence ceremony is known, a
chairperson is to be appointed from among the members of the
Doctoral Examination Working Committee. Until such time as a
chairperson is appointed, the Rector Magnificus will act as
chairperson and deal with any matters that need immediate attention.

1.3.
In exceptional cases, the Board for Doctorates may permit (a part of)
the opposition and the defence, to be conducted in a language other
than Dutch or English. For this purpose, a request must be
submitted to the chairperson of the doctoral committee by the
promotor (via the Graduate School Office) no later than two weeks
before the doctoral defence date. The chairperson of the doctoral
committee will take a decision on this within one week and will then
inform the advisors and members of the doctoral committee and all
others involved.

1.4.
The doctoral defence ceremony usually takes place in the Senate Hall
of the university. If there is a joint doctorate, it may be agreed that the
ceremony will take place at the partner institution according to the rules
and protocol applicable there, and in accordance with the cooperation
agreement (see Guidelines on the Graduate School website).

1.5.
The chairperson may limit access to the hall if there are issues of (fire)
safety or public order due to the capacity of the location. Children
under the age of four years and (domestic) animals with the exception
of assistance dogs are not allowed into the defence ceremony. The
chairperson may also deny access to the ceremony to any persons
who cause disruption.

1.6.
During the defence of the doctoral dissertation and the propositions,
the doctoral candidate can be assisted by one or two paranymphs
(supporters). The paranymphs may assist by reading out propositions
or presenting (parts of) the doctoral dissertation or the doctoral design.

1.7.
If during the doctoral defence ceremony circumstances arise which, in
the opinion of the chairperson, impede the normal course of
proceedings, the chairperson will decide how to proceed further. If the
chairperson decides to suspend the proceedings prematurely, the
Rector Magnificus will be notified as soon as possible, after which the
Rector Magnificus will take appropriate action.

1.8.
All those in attendance will demonstrate the appropriate respect for the
academic ceremony that is taking place and for the members of the
doctoral committee by standing when instructed to do so by the beadle
\- namely when the chairperson stands or enters the hall.

1.9. The doctoral committee will meet to deliberate 30 minutes before the
start of the doctoral defence ceremony or, if a ' cum laude' designation
has been proposed, 45 minutes before. Regarding the attendance of
the members of the doctoral committee, the following rules will apply:
a. If the chairperson is unable to attend for any reason, the
beadle will report this situation immediately to the Vice-Rector,
or (if the Vice-Rector is absent) to another member of the
Working Committee for Doctorates, who will take the action
that said member deems fit.

b. If a member of the committee is unable to attend for any reason, the
chairperson will be informed of this immediately and will take the
action that the chairperson deems fit, taking into account the fact
that the doctoral defence ceremony can only proceed if, in
accordance with the Doctoral Regulations, the minimum number of
full professors is in attendance and, in the opinion of the
chairperson, there are enough independent examiners.

c. The chairperson will determine the order of the examiners, in
consultation with the other members of the committee.

1.10. If other persons who are not members of the doctoral committee
wish to examine the candidate, a written request to this effect must
be submitted in writing at the latest two weeks before the agreed
defence ceremony date to the Rector Magnificus, who will make a
decision on whether to honour the request within one week. An
examiner of this type must hold a doctorate or be authorised to act
as a promotor.

1.11. It is highly recommended that, prior to the doctoral defence ceremony,
doctoral candidates prepare an explanation of the essence of their
doctoral dissertation, the results obtained and the possible applications,
that is comprehensible to non-experts. This should be arranged with
the University Graduate School in time. As a rule, the explanation
begins 30 minutes before the doctoral defence ceremony and is
completed no later than 10 minutes before the start of the doctoral
defence ceremony.

1.12. The permission of the Rector Magnificus is required before making
any recordings for radio or television during the doctoral defence
ceremony. This permission must be obtained at least two weeks in
advance of the doctoral defence ceremony. Making audio and video
recordings or streaming a live video feed is permitted for personal
use, e.g. so that family members abroad can also witness the
proceedings.
Attire

2.1. During the doctoral defence ceremony, the chairperson, the
promotor, the other members of the committee as well as the
candidate and any paranymphs, are to dress as follows, as
prescribed by protocol:

a. Full professors are to wear the ceremonial dress associated with
the academic traditions relating to doctoral defence ceremonies at
the institution that they belong to, or wear a gown and
paraphernalia of TU Delft. Underneath this, a white dress shirt
with a grey tie or a white blouse or white shirt bib is worn, with
dark trousers or a dark skirt, and black shoes.

b. Delft full professors are to wear a gown and cap, and a sash over
their gown, and the chairperson of the doctoral committee is to
wear the chain of office of the Rector Magnificus.

C.
Other committee members are to wear a black morning coat with
white dress shirt, grey waistcoat and grey tie, or a black, dark
grey or dark blue dress or skirt with a blouse of the same colour
or a white blouse, and black shoes.

d. The doctoral candidate and paranymphs are to wear a white tie
ensemble: a black dress suit with white dress shirt and waistcoat,
white bow tie and black shoes or a black, dark grey or dark blue
dress or skirt, of knee length as a minimum, with a blouse of the
same colour or a white blouse, and black shoes.

e. The beadle is to wear a gown with sash and cap, the beadle's
staff and black shoes, a dark suit, white dress shirt, grey tie or
other appropriate clothing.

2.2.
Full professors are to wear their caps while examining and after the
resumption of the doctoral defence ceremony; the chairperson is to
wear a cap for the duration of the ceremony.

2.3. The beadle will ensure that the clothing is worn appropriately and in a
manner that befits the dignity of an academic ceremony.

2.4. If the doctoral candidate wishes to depart from the ceremonial dress
described above and wear ceremonial dress associated with an
academic culture or academic tradition, or otherwise deviate from the
ceremonial dress described in paragraph 1d, permission must be
obtained from the Board for Doctorates at least two weeks before the
doctoral defence ceremony. The Board for Doctorates will grant
permission if they judge that the attire is in accordance with the value
which the University attaches to the ceremony.
Doctoral defence ceremony, first part

3.1.
The doctoral dissertation and the propositions will be defended by
the doctoral candidate for one hour in the face of the reservations of
the doctoral committee, as well as those of any other person given
permission in accordance with the Doctorate Regulations.

3.2.
The chairperson opens the doctoral defence ceremony and invites
the candidate to take up a position behind the lectern (and the
paranymph(s) to be seated in the appropriate places). The
chairperson introduces the committee members and then gives the
floor to the first examiner, according to the order agreed beforehand.
The examiner will express reservations one by one and the
candidate will be given the opportunity to respond to each. A lively
debate may arise and the chairperson will ensure that this is
conducted fairly, and that the candidate has an adequate
opportunity to defend himself.

3.3.
Examiners are to remain seated while their reservations are heard.
With regard to the order in which the examiners speak, the following
rules apply.

a. If there are reservations from the hall, these will be heard first, with
a limit of five minutes for the reservations to be expressed and
answers to be given.

b. Of the members of the doctoral committee, the independent
members from outside TU Delft will have the first opportunity to
express their reservations. Generally, the independent members
together will have at least 45 minutes to examine the candidate.
The remaining members will subsequently be given the opportunity
to examine, with the promotor examining last of all. It may occur
that not all members have the opportunity to examine.

c.
A copromotor will speak before the promotor.

The committee members will all be given the opportunity to speak
if possible, although the chairperson will usually refrain from
examining the candidate.

3.4. The members of the doctoral committee (and any individuals wishing to
speak from the audience) will address the candidate as 'waarde
doctoral candidate' or 'waarde promovenda' ('worthy doctoral
candidate').

The candidate uses the following forms of address for the members of
the doctoral committee.

Chairperson: 'mijnheer/mevrouw de rector' ('Mr/Madam Rector').

A promotor who is a full professor: 'hooggeachte promotor' ('esteemed
promotor').

A promotor who is not a full professor: 'zeer geachte promotor' ('highly
honourable promotor').

Copromotor: 'zeergeleerde promotor' ('learned promotor'),
if not a holder of a doctorate: 'geachte promotor' ('honourable
promotor').

Full professors: 'hooggeleerde opponent' ('most learned opponent');
Doctorate-holding members: 'zeergeleerde opponent' ('learned
opponent').

Non-doctorate-holding members: 'geachte opponent' ('honourable
opponent').

3.5.
Any opponents from the audience will be addressed by the doctoral
candidate as 'zeergeleerde opponent', or (if it is a full professor) as
'hooggeleerde opponent'. These forms of address (as stated in 3.4
and 3.5) are also to be used even if the ceremony takes place
wholly or partly in a language other than Dutch.

3.6.
Unless otherwise decided by the chairperson the ceremony will last for
sixty minutes before being adjourned. The beadle will announce that
the academic hour has passed with the words 'hora est'. Thereafter
the chairperson will ask the doctoral candidate (and the paranymphs)
to take their seats in the hall and indicate that the doctoral committee
will retire for further deliberation.
Doctoral defence ceremony, second part

4.1.
If, following the deliberations of the committee as referred to in article
17.1 of the Doctorate Regulations, they decide that a doctorate is to be
awarded, after the public meeting is reconvened, the chairperson will
invite the doctoral candidate (and any paranymphs) to stand before the
committee and the chairperson will announce to the candidate in the
manner prescribed by protocol that the doctoral committee has
decided to award the doctorate on behalf of the Board for Doctorates.

4.2.
If, following the deliberations of the committee as referred to in article
17.1 of the Doctorate Regulations, they decide that a doctorate is not
to be awarded, the chairperson will invite the doctoral candidate to join
the meeting of the committee in accordance with article 17.3 of the
Doctorate Regulations.

4.3.
If the designation 'cum laude' is also to be attached to the doctorate,
this will also be announced. At the request of the chairperson the
promotor will then bestow the degree onto the doctoral candidate
using the prescribed wording, after which the promotor will present

the candidate with the signed diploma. The words of the chairperson
are pronounced in Dutch while all those present stand.

4.4. When granting the doctorate (cum laude), the chairperson will
use the following wording (in Dutch):

'Het College voor Promoties van de Technische Universiteit Delft;
vertegenwoordigd door de hier aanwezige commissie; heeft, na
kennis te hebben genomen van uw proefschrift met stellingen en na
uw verdediging daarvan te hebben gehoord; met inachtneming van
het bepaalde in de Wet op het hoger onderwijs en wetenschappelijk
onderzoek; besloten u de graad te verlenen van doctor (en wel cum
laude). Ik verzoek de promotor door het College voor Promoties als
zodanig aangewezen; zich wel van de hem opgedragen taak te
kwijten'.

The promotor, standing to the right of the chairperson, will say the
following (in Dutch):

'Uit kracht van de bevoegdheid bij Wet toegekend aan het College
voor Promoties; verklaar ik namens dat college; hier vertegenwoordigd
door de Rector Magnificus en de overige leden van de commissie; bij
deze u [ .... naam .... ] te bevorderen tot doctor (en wel cum laude) en u
alle rechten te verlenen welke aan de doctorstitel zijn verbonden. Ten
bewijze hiervan overhandig ik u het diploma dat u het recht geeft de
titel "doctor" te voeren; ondertekend door de Rector Magnificus en de
promotor(en) en voorzien van het zegel van de Technische Universiteit
Delft.'

In the case of joint diplomas, the chairperson will speak the following
words (in Dutch and English):

'Uw diploma is een tweeledig diploma samen met het volgende
partnerinstituut voor hoger onderwijs: .... [naam, plaats, land] .... ,
opgenomen in het diplomasupplement en goedgekeurd door het
College voor Promoties.'

'Your diploma is a dual diploma awarded together with the following
partner institute of higher education: ... [name, city, country] ... , stated in
the Diploma Supplement and approved by the Board for Doctorates.'

4.5.
After the members of the doctoral committee and the audience are
seated, the promotor or copromotor of the new Doctor will stand
and address the new Doctor and finally wish the new Doctor good
luck. Subsequently, the chairperson will point out the scientific
integrity that is explicitly required of all holders of the title of Doctor
and congratulate the new Doctor on behalf of the Board for
Doctorates by speaking the following text (in English, if this was
the language used during the defence ceremony):

'Zeergeleerde dr.[ .... naam .... ],

U hebt vanaf nu het recht de doctorstitel te dragen. Uw doctorstitel
betekent dat de samenleving op uw oordeel kan vertrouwen, dat u
transparant handelt en onafhankelijk communiceert over uw resultaten
en de maatschappelijke relevantie van uw werk; met andere woorden.
uw doctorstitel impliceert wetenschappelijke integriteit. Ik wens u veel
wijsheid en voorspoed met uw nieuwe waardigheid.

Namens het College voor Promoties van de Technische Universiteit Delft
feliciteer ik u (en uw familie) met de behaalde doctorsgraad.'

'Learned Doctor ....... ,

You now have the right to use the title of doctor. Your doctorate
means that society can rely on your judgement, that you will act
transparently and communicate independently about your results and
the social relevance of your work. In other words, your doctorate
implies that you will uphold scientific integrity. I wish you a great deal
of wisdom and prosperity with your new status. On behalf of the Board
for Doctorates of Delft University of Technology I congratulate you
(and your family) on earning your doctoral degree.'

4.6.
The chairperson will then request the new Doctor (and the
paranymphs) to take their places in the hall and will then close the
session. After this, all those present will stand and the Committee will
leave, following the beadle to the Senate Hall.
Diploma

5.1.
The diploma will be produced in accordance with the model given in
Appendix II, unless otherwise determined, stating the accompanying
register number.

5.2.
The diploma will be in English.

.3. A dual diploma will be in English.

G. Advisory Committee (Article 19.3 Doctoral Regulations)
Appointment

The Board for Doctorates will appoint a committee to handle disputes,
as referred to in article 19 of the Doctoral Regulations; the committee
will be known as the TU Delft Doctoral Arbitration Committee.
Composition

2.1.
The Committee consists of a chairperson and a deputy chairperson,
who will also be a member, as well as four members.

2.2.
Advice on a dispute will be issued by three members, including the
chairperson or the deputy chairperson.

2.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of article 7:13, third paragraph of the
General Administrative Law Act, hearings can be chaired by the
chairperson, the deputy chairperson or a member who is not part of or
working for the Board for Doctorates, in the event of the sudden absence
of the chairperson, the deputy chairperson or one or more members on
the date of the hearing.

2.4.
The chairperson, the deputy chairperson and committee members are
appointed by the Board for Doctorates for a maximum period of three
years, and they can be reappointed twice.

3\.
Appointment criteria and requirements for each dispute

3.1.
The chairperson, the deputy chairperson and the members
must be full professors.

3.2.
The chairperson and deputy chairperson must not be part of or
responsible to the Executive Board.

3.3.
The members are not directly involved in the dispute or the
doctoral dissertation and will not receive instructions from the
Board for Doctorates regarding the dispute.
Dismissal

4.1.
After hearing the relevant individual, the chairperson, deputy
chairperson and committee members may be dismissed by the Board
for Doctorates if they are shown to be performing inadequately, or if
there are other substantial reasons for doing so in the opinion of the
Board for Doctorates.

4.2.
The chairperson, the deputy chairperson, and the members may
also resign from the committee at their own request at any time.

5\.
Secretariat

5.1.
The Board for Doctorates, in consultation with the Executive Board, will
appoint a secretary and one or more deputy secretaries, to assist the
committee.

5.2.
The secretary and deputy secretary will not be part of the committee.

H. Continuation of promotorship after the honourable discharge (Article 8.4 Doctoral Regulations)
Request for continuation of promotorship

If full professors or associate professors who have been appointed
promotors by the Board for Doctorates are given an honourable
discharge and wish to make use of their right to act as promotors for
the doctoral candidates they are supervising for another five years,
they can submit a written request to this effect to the Board for
Doctorates, after approval has been given by the dean of the relevant
faculty.
Request to dean

Prior to the request to make use of the right to act as a promotor
after an honourable discharge, full professors or associate
professors will ask permission from their dean for continuation of the
supervision of the doctoral candidates which the full professors or
associate professors are supervising. Explicit attention will be paid to
the way in which the continuation of the supervision will take place,
as well as to any transfer of doctoral candidates to other promotors.
The dean can make proposals to the Board for Doctorates for
additional or replacement promotorships.
Supervision of doctoral candidate

If no other (co)promotor is appointed alongside a full professor or
associate professor who is receiving honourable discharge, it will be
necessary to propose at least one supervisor to the Board for
Doctorates as (co)promotor with an employment contract with TU Delft
for a number of hours which means that the supervisor is available to a
sufficient extent for the performance of the corresponding duties and
responsibilities. The proposal of a new supervisor must take place
using Form A.
Submission of request

The request referred to in paragraph 1 of this article must be submitted
by the full professor or associate professor to the Graduate School
Office in good time before the end of the employment, and contains:

a. the request of the full professor or associate professor, initialled
for approval by the dean;

b. an overview of the doctoral candidates allocated to the full
professor or associate professor by the Board for Doctorates,
specifying the candidates for whom they wish to continue the
supervision or not;

c. form A, if a new (co)promotor is proposed.

Appendix I: FURTHER REMARKS ON THE PROPOSITIONS (in English)
Opposability of propositions

Many candidates find it hard, after completion of a prolonged investigation, to
go on to formulate propositions that can spark a scientific debate. While their
doctoral dissertation then demonstrates their ability as a researcher, it gives
no evidence that they are able to formulate hypotheses that would serve as
a challenge to further investigation. The hypotheses underlying a doctoral
study are developed with the necessary guidance, and are no longer explicitly
discussed during long periods of investigation. It is precisely the ability to
pose scientific questions oneself that is tested by the formulation of bold
propositions and their defence in public.

To this end, the propositions appended to a doctoral dissertation must not be
only positive statements that can be defended within a certain field of science,
but must also be challenging. For example, the proposition 'the sun will rise
tomorrow' may be defendable but it is not at all challenging in the current
intellectual climate and could never trigger a debate of pros and cons capable
of advancing the boundaries of science. Hence, the propositions appended to
the doctoral dissertation must be not only scientifically sound and defendable
but also opposable. Propositions might give offence to many people if they
are weak and as such they will not contribute to the academic objectives of
the graduation ceremony or the good name of our University. To ensure the
quality of the propositions, the supervisor is required to sign a statement
confirming that the propositions are 'opposable and defendable'.
Decisiveness

The demand that propositions must be opposable as well as defendable adds
two requirements: decisiveness and boldness. A proposition may be said to
be 'decisive' if, for example, it is true or false (i.e. not a question, exclamation
or command) and without tautology or attenuating qualification such as 'often',
'sometimes' or 'to a considerable extent'. Vague quantors cannot be refuted
by opponents during the public defence of the doctoral dissertation, and must
therefore be regarded as 'not opposable'. If necessary, a proposition may
contain the qualifier 'generally' or 'usually', since this means literally 'in more
than 50% of the cases', but such probabilistic quantors make both opposition
and defence impossible when the relevant statistical data are not available
during the debate. A proposition with existence quantor (there is a case where
... applies) is only opposable when no example is yet known (e.g. before
1988: 'a proof of Fermat's last theorem exists'). In fact, such propositions are
very appropriate for a university of technology, for inventions and designs.
They have the general form: "There is a possible method (or technique) to ... ".

A generalizing all-quantor (it may be stated in any case that ... ) challenges
the opposition to present counter-examples. When the proposition does not
contain an explicit quantor, an implicit all-quantor may be assumed, though

the opponent would do well to ask the candidate "Does this apply in all
cases?" before producing a counterexample. Such a debate is scientifically
productive when it clarifies the assumptions under which the proposition
applies and those under which it does not. If a counterargument is produced,
the candidate can reformulate the proposition to "Apart from such and such
a case, it may be stated that ... " and invite the opponent to find a further
counter-example. If the revised proposition stands up to attack, it has been
successfully refined and may be regarded as a 'triumph of science'.
The challenging nature of propositions

To state that a proposition is 'challenging' means that there is some doubt
about its scientific truth or falsehood, so that arguments pro and contra it can
be weighed against one another. If there is absolutely no doubt about the
truth of a proposition, it no longer has any relevance for the advancement
of science. A proposition assumed by everyone to be true can be defended,
but there is no point in investigating it any further. Conversely, a proposition
that is clearly false does not come into consideration for further investigation.
It only becomes scientifically interesting if some doubt exists as to its truth.
A scientific hypothesis (literally sup-position) to be tested by investigation
is thus challenging by definition, since otherwise there would be no point
in the investigation. The most valuable propositions are those which are
generally regarded to be untrue (such as the views put forward by Copernicus
in his time) but which, possibly on the basis of new evidence, turn out to
be defendable. Such propositions demonstrate the candidate's critical and
innovative approach and the candidate's ability to advance the boundaries
of science.

Subsequent propositions may concern matters not dealt with in the thesis,
and indeed belong to other scientific disciplines. For example, the candidate
may question the validity of the results of other investigations, possibly in
fields other than the candidate's own, which may be cited in the proposition.
A proposition casting new light on our preconceived ideas lends itself very
well to a humorous formulation. A joke is characterized by a change in
assumptions during the narrative, and the primary task of science is to
replace existing assumptions by hypotheses that show empirical reality and
its technical potential in a new light. The testing or verification of such
hypotheses is its second task.
Defendability

The 'defendability' of a proposition means that while the truth of the
proposition is not self-evident (i.e. the proposition is challenging in the sense
used above), sound scientific arguments can be advanced in its favour. The
field of science in which these arguments are valid (not necessarily 'reliable')
and defendable should be mentioned explicitly in the proposition (e.g. 'in
psychology'). This will serve to limit the number of playful propositions and
allows the candidate to show that the candidate's insights extend beyond the
boundaries of the candidate's own domain (universitas). In this context,
'defendable'also means 'morally acceptable'.

The Board for Doctorates of Delft University of Technology

declares, under the provisions of art. 7.18 of the Higher Education and Research Act
(Staatsblad 1997, no. 322) and the Doctoral Regulations, that

XXXX XXXXXX XXXXXXXX

born XX Xxxx XXXX in Xxxxxxxx, XxxxxxxxXX

having presented and successfully defended a dissertation entitled

Xxx XXXXXXX XXXXXXXX XXXXXXX
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XXXX

with attached propositions, both supervised by
Xxxx.xx. X.X.X.X. Xxxxxxxx
has been awarded the Degree of DOCTOR.

Delft, XX Xxxx XXXX

On behalf of the Board for Doctorates

Promotor(s)

Rector Magnificus

APPENDIX III: Timeline for final phase of Doctoral Programme

2
Promotor

2
Doctoral Candidate

2

Graduate School Office (GSO)
on behalf of
Board for Doctorates (Bf

Runs plagiarism scan, approves draft dissertation and
propositions, signs Form B.

Submits Form B + complete digital draft dissertation +
title page and propositions toGSO and fixes provisional
defence date.

at least 13 weeks before defence

Checks completion of DE Programme and plagiarism
check before fixing defence datewith doctoral candidate.

Submits Form C containing proposal for composition
Doctoral Committee to BfD via GSO.

at least 12 weeks before defence

Informs committee members of their appointment and
requests their assessment of draft dissertation.

at least 1 1 weeks before defence

Receives and responds to suggested changes to draft
dissertation from committee members.

4
weeks after assessment request

Has received judgements and assessmentsfrom
committee members.

Processes suggested changes in draft dissertation in
consultation with Promotor.

Has submitted definitive dissertation to promotor and
definitive title page to the GSO.

Approves dissertation, submits Form D and, if
applicable, submits any Cum Laudeproposals to
BfD via GSO.

6
weeks after assessment request

Informs all parties of admission to defence ceremony.

Has dissertation and propositions printed.

Has distributed dissertation and propositions to doctoral
committee, chairman, GSO (2 booklets) and faculty.

at least 2 weeks before defence

Has scheduled and attended meeting withchairman of
the doctoral committee.

Spends one hour defending the dissertation and
propositions.

...

Acts as host to the doctoral committee during the
Doctoral Defence Ceremony.